>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Let's
talk about generics,
which is a advanced language feature for
sure,
which is one of the things that I really
wish was in the original.net runtime,
but it didn't make its way in,
because you have to ship obviously.
And they basically allow you to provide to
define different things in different ways,
and it's a good way of implement,
it's C sharps main way of implementing
polymorphism or different forms for
things inside of the language.
So this is the syntax for
what's called a generic type.
And you can see that it looks kind of
funky, it's like, where did the angular
come in, why are we writing react in our,
in a C sharp code, but it is a open.
It is a alligator mouth open
a greater than sign, or,
I guess that's the less and
sign, the name of the type and
the the closing bracket,
the closing angle bracket.
And what this can do is it allows
us to define to find types that do,
kind of different things based
on the type that we give it.
Let me show you what that looks like.
Let's clear out all this other stuff boom,
let's put that in.
So what we've defined is a very simple,
very contrived example.
Again, not real code that I would write,
but good for
illustrating this language feature.
Let me break this down for
you a little bit.
This is said to be
a class called box of T.
Now, T can be named anything.
Are all types that are,
what are called generic arguments.
This is a generic argument,
aways are denoted with a T first.
Let's call it T item,
kind of just to set it home.
And you notice that,
when we hover over T item,
it doesn't really tell us what it is.
It just says T item and box, T item.
Well, that seems kind of circular,
what does that mean?
Let me show you.
So let's say that I wanted to,
something that I wanted to box
up a string, box of a string.
I can instantiate this object, right?
And I can give it a type called string.
So give it the type argument, open and
close parentheses to finish
calling the constructor.
What are the implications of this,
why is this useful?
Well, the implications of it are that
we now have methods on this instance,
where the only thing that we can
do is get an item of that type and
set an item of that type,
so let me show you.
So box of a string called setitem,
and we open a parentheses and
we look, we see that string
item is the type of the thing.
Now that's weird because it's T item,
what's T item?
Well, we've defined the type by
providing it in this type argument here.
So we can set this item to
an instance of a string.
And then of course we can,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Print
a line, box of string, and
get item to get the copy of the item.
And you can see that our ASDF
string is printed right here.
Seems weird on its face, but
it's very useful because now we can do
certain things like restrict behaviors.
Now I'm all about safety, I'm all about
restricting behavior where it makes sense.
So, box of a string.setitem,
the moment I try to put anything in there
that's not a string,
it gives me a compiler.
It says cannot convert from int to string
because it's expecting a string to this
box object because that's what we've
specified that this is a box of a string.
Correspondingly, we can
also declare box of an int.
New box of that's how
you say that an int and
box of an int has the same properties as
box of a string in that you cannot set
it to something that is not the target
type, which in this case is int.
So extremely handy, especially as you
get down into, like I said, length.
This is one of the foundational things
that makes link work which we'll talk
about here shortly.
I'm gonna show you a couple of
other properties of generics.
This is how you create a generic class, we
kinda already did that in our box example.
You can also create
a generically typed method so
you can have a method on a class
that is not a generic class,
but that is a generic method.
And what you can do is use that,
let me copy paste this code in.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Delete that,
put this in here.
And this one's a really silly, let's call
this a static class, because it's kind of
doesn't do anything static here,
because it doesn't do anything, and
we can define a method on it called Get
default value, where we pass in a type.
So we know that, based on the fact
that it's returning the default value,
that the default value could be for
into, could be zero for
a reference type,
like person it would be null.
So what we can do is we can say
var default value of int and
then we can say utilities do get default
value pass in the int that it is.
And because we've defined the generic type
here as our return type for our method.
We're gonna go down here and we're going
to see that we get an int out of that.
Really cool, really neat,
really a ton of flexibility.
It looks strange, just wait,
best is yet to come.
I'm gonna show you a few more things,
just about generics.
We're not gonna go over them in the code,
but
I do want you to make you aware
because they are important to know.
So you can basically constrain
a type of a generic to be
a specific thing where you can
say that I want this type of tea.
The only types that can go in there
can be class and eye disposable.
So int, for instance, would not fulfill
the requirements of this generic type.
It's called a type restriction or
type constraint.
And it's supremely useful because what you
can do then is you can now know that when
this T item is passed
into this manage method,
we know that it's a reference type.
And we also know the behaviors and
properties that it gets from
the interface that we've set.
It has to be an I disposable interface,
it has to implement that interface.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Same thing here
you can see that in this Data Manager
class, this contrived example
that we've constrained
the type that T has to be a class and
it has to be an I track entity.
And And you can see that i tracked
entity has an id guid property, and
thus we can access that item's id property
because we know of its type ahead of time.
So, pretty useful,
multiple type generics so
generics can have multiple type parameters
I think the language limit is 16, but
I've never gone higher than two or
three, I think.
I don't even know if I've
gone as high as three, but
one and two are pretty common for
me to declare.
You'll see that when we look at
the dictionary data structure,
this will become super, this will
become important as we talk about that.
So the thing that we're gonna talk about,
especially in the ASP.NET Core class,
the thing that I see a lot is
this idea of a repository.
So I don't talk in software patterns
a lot, because I feel like, especially for
newer programmers, that we could talk
about software patterns all day, but
they're little too abstract sometimes
to really know what they mean.
But there are some software patterns
that are really important to know and
understand.
One of them is the repository, pattern,
okay, basically a way of a common
way of defining how you would get a thing
in and out of a database, and how would
you get all of them, and how would you
get some of them, and so on and so forth.
It's a repository,
it's literally an abstraction for
most commonly used when
talking to a database system.
And so if you have this repository here,
where you have this interface defined,
and you basically say, wait,
I wanna define a repository, the T,
the type argument here
will always be class.
I wanna be able to define a repository
where I get all of the things that are T,
or I get them all by id, or
I get them, or I wanna add them, or
I wanna delete that particular thing.
This gets really powerful when you start
talking about different repositories for
different types of objects.
In the real world, in the database,
you don't store customers
next to products in a table.
You might, for some weird reason, but
in most database and software design,
you probably are going to put those
things in separate database tables or
even separate spreadsheets,
wherever they're,
wherever their final resting place may be,
wherever their source of truth is.
They're probably going to
be in different places.
So it's useful to be able to go in and
say, I want to get a repository for
my customers, and
I wanna get a repository for my products.
But I wanna keep those I want to
treat those as separate things, and
then I want to operate on those
objects as if they're separate things.
That's the power of generics,
that's why generics are important.
And as we get down further into this,
you'll see like how important they become,
they are very useful.
Any questions?
>> Speaker 1: Is there a generic concept
where we can say something like T
should have a foo method or
a bar method, both will be fine?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: No, the type
system in C-sharp simply isn't that
flexible.
And usually you constrain it down to
an interface at the lowest level.
TypeScript does have that,
but as far as its generics,
type system goes, but
C sharp does not good question.